By Emmanuel Acha
Enugu –  Rangers International Football Club of Enugu on Wednesday unveiled Gbenga Ogunbote as its new Technical Adviser, ahead of the 2017/2018 Nigerian football season. Ogunbote, who was with Enyimba International FC of Aba in the 2016/2017 season, is taking over from Paul Aigbogun who joined the Enugu-based side midway to the end of the season. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Enugu State Governor, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, performed the unveiling ceremony at the Executive Council Chambers of the Government House. Ogunbote, who has coached at clubs like 3SC, the defunct Sharks and Sunshine Stars before now, told newsmen after the ceremony that he was excited at the prospects of working with Rangers. “Rangers is a household name in Nigerian football and it is a privilege to be given the opportunity to handle the team in the coming season. “When the offer came, I thought it was a special grace for me,” he said. Ogunbote said his immediate task was to look at the problems which led the team to an unimpressive performance in the last season. “I have a name to protect and we will work assiduously to achieve it. I was not given a target, but I have a target for myself,” he said. The coach said he left Enyimba International due to his desire for a new challenge. “My challenge in Enyimba was to take the team to winning a ticket to play on the continent, which we achieved. But I need a new challenge,” Ogunbote said. Also speaking, the Team Manager of Rangers Management Corporation, Davidson Owumi, said the new challenge was to build a strong professional clubside. “Everybody will be part of the move to rebrand Rangers because we need to develop a brand for ourselves,” Owumi said. NAN reports that Ogunbote’s unveiling has come seven days after the Administrative Panel of Inquiry into the Poor Performance of Rangers in the last season submitted its report to the governor. The panel headed by Prof. Gab Agu had recommended an immediate engagement of a new technical crew for the team.(NAN)