By Stanley Nwanosike Enugu   –    The Commissioner of Police in Enugu State, Mr Danmallam Mohammed, has called for closer synergy between the Nigeria Police Force and journalists in the state. Danmallam made the call when he received a delegation of the National Association of Women Journalists (NAWOJ) in his office in Enugu on Tuesday. He noted that the police and journalists shared something in common, “which is curiosity to investigate issues”, adding that both work could synergise for the good of the society. The commissioner said that at times investigative stories written by journalists provide police insight and clue on a particular matter. “We will appreciate if you draw closer to us and feed us with vital security information since you also conduct investigations like we do in the police. “I am assuring you that such information will be treated with utmost confidentiality and your identity well protected,’’ he said. According to him, both police and journalists render services to the public, services meant to secure everyone living in the society. Danmallam urged journalists, especially members of NAWOJ, to continue on their sensitisation on violence against women as well as the need for the girl child to be educated. “As a command, we will partner and assist you in any form to further uplift our society and make it a better place for all to live,’’ he said. Earlier, the Vice-President of NAWOJ (South-East), Chibota Edozie, lauded the commissioner for reducing crime in Enugu State, adding that the swift rescue of Prof. Nduka Eya from kidnappers recently spoke volume of the competence of his command. Edozie said that the visit was to fraternise with the command, adding: “the police and journalists are partners in fighting crime and making the society a better place’’. “We wish to inform you that the South-East NAWOJ will also embark on Summit for Women in the zone, which will hold in Enugu. “We intend to partner with Police Officers Wives Association (POWA) in some programmes such as enlightenment on sickle cell anemia and exclusive breastfeeding for women ,’’ Edozie said.