By Nse Anthony-Uko,
ABUJA, (Sundiata Post) – The Central Bank of Nigeria has approved the application of the Federal Government for the issuance of an operational license for the take-off of the Development Bank of Nigeria.
The approval was conveyed in a letter dated March 28, 2017 and addressed to the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of the DBN.
The letter was signed  by the Deputy Governor, Financial System Stability,CBN, Dr Joseph Okwu Nnanna and its subject to meeting the minimum capital requirement of N100 billion as well as the reconstitution of the board of the bank and reviewing its organogram.
This was confirmed by the Minister of Finance, Mrs Kemi Adeosun on Wednesday through a statement  issued the ministry.
The DBN, was conceived in 2014 but its take off was fraught with delays by the previous administration.
The administration of President Muhammadu Buhari had  inherited the project with a determination to resolve all outstanding issues and set a target of 2017 for its take-off.
The DBN would have access to $1.3bn (N396.5bn) which has been jointly provided by the World Bank, German Development Bank), the African Development Bank and the French Development Agency.
The finance ministry had in a statement said that the DBN was finalising agreements with the European Investment Bank and that its  operations would not in any way, result in the elimination of the Bank of Industry, Bank of Agriculture or any other existing development bank.
“The operations of the DBN is clearly distinct from other development banks as it is focused on supporting small businesses defined by size and not by sectors.
The DBN, will provide loans to all sectors of the economy including, manufacturing, services and other industries not currently served by existing development banks thereby filling an important gap in the provision of finance to Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises.
As a wholesale bank, the DBN would lend to Microfinance Banks which would on-lend  medium to long-term loans to MSMEs.
The MSMEs contribute about 48.47 per cent to the Gross Domestic Products of Nigeria but have access to only about  five per cent of lending from Deposit Money Banks.
The influx of additional capital from the DBN would lower borrowing rates, and the longer tenure of the loans, would provide the required flexibility in the management of cash flows.
This bank is also expected to give businesses the opportunity to make capital improvements, and acquire equipment or supplies.