By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) — World Bank is has raised hope of a modest growth rebound in the key African economies of Nigeria, South Africa and Angola, whose economies constitute large chunk of African economic size. This is despite rising concerns of negative growth that has characterised most African countries since 2016. Also, the World Bank is also projecting the economic growth in sub-saharan Africa to recover to the tune of 2.6 percent in 2017, following a marked deceleration in 2016. Nevertheless, the upturn in economic activity is expected to continue in 2018-2019 reflecting improvements in commodity prices, a pickup in global growth, and more supportive domestic conditions. ‎‎Albert Zeufack, World Bank Chief Economist, in a Webcast interaction with journalists from the Africa region, on Wednesday, said it is not yet ‘uhuru’ for most African countries, as many of them are still posting negative growths due largely from weak structural reforms and infrastructural deficit. With still high poverty rates, the region is faced with the urgent need to regain ‎the momentum in growth and make it more inclusive, while keeping an eye on rising debt profile, the World Bank Chief noted. According to him, “This will require deep reforms to improve the quantity and quality of public infrastructure,enhance the efficiency of utilities and strengthen domestic resource mobilisation” While raising further concern, “Regional growth remains insufficient to raise per capita incomes. Per capital gross domestic product(GDP) is projected to contract by 0.1 percent in 2017, before rising moderately by less than 1.0 percent a year in 2018-2019. Accordingly,he noted that, “The emphasis must be on fiscal discipline, structural reformer, macro economic reforms ‎and the right kind of model to address widening deficit infrastructural gap, which would open up crowded investment in respect to manufacturing, and other key sectors,” the World Bank Chief noted. On infrastructure, the World Bank Chief noted that project selection, implementation and capacity building on projects must be beefed up, if we are to increase the speed on investment in Africa, and address wide infrastructure gap currently confronting the African.