By Emmanuel Acha Enugu  –  Enugu State Government is reviewing its legal framework to entrench a robust Internally Generated Revenue, says Deputy Gov. Cecelia Ezeilo. Ezeilo said this when members of the Facility for Oil Sector Transformation (FOSTER) paid her a courtesy call in Enugu. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that FOSTER is an arm of Department for International Development (DFID). She said that the desire to meet the yearnings of residents of the state made the review imperative. “We are currently reviewing and updating existing legal frameworks in line with best practices to make our IGR administration more robust and responsive. “This is without imposing unnecessary tax burden on the good people of Enugu State.” The deputy governor gave an assurance that the state government would continually collaborate with development partners in order to bring development to the door steps of the people. She said that providing the necessary welfare for residents of the state and strengthening institutions had become more urgent now than ever. Ezeilo said that the state government had enjoyed a cordial relationship with DFID for 17 years and commended the organisation for its effort in strengthening relevant institutions in the state. She said that the state government had made giants strides in the areas of infrastructural development, maternal and child health care and agriculture. Ezeilo further that the state government had also expanded the Adani Irrigation Scheme as well as empowered youths in the state. She commended the organisation for including Enugu State in its pilot programme. Earlier, the leader of the team, Mr. Ademola Henry, said that the organisation had introduced indices to strengthen the capacity of states to sufficiently determine their actual monthly entitlement from the Federation Account. Henry said that the team was in the state to unveil the scheme. He said that a partnership in that regard would benefit the state and assured the state gvernment of DFID’s continued support.