By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar has informed that it requires a united and coherent Peoples Democratic Party to sack President Buhari-led APC in 2019. Atiku reminded that the immediate challenge before the newly elected national officials of the PDP is to run an all-inclusive administration where the various interests within the party can find accommodation. He disclosed this in a congratulatory message to Prince Uche Secondus and other elected officials of the exco signed by his media office sent to Sundiata Post.  Atiku who reminded that Nigerians are looking up to the Party for unity, stressed that the PDP is again, at the verge of making history. The statement reads: “Our great party, the People’s Democratic Party is, again, at the threshold of an historical moment. Just as we mobilized to put an end to prolonged military rule in 1999, the people of Nigeria at this moment look up to us to rescue the country from the mis-government of the APC. “Arising from our elective congress, there should be no victor and no vanquished. Our paramount attention should be focused at sacking a government that deceived the people of Nigeria into power by promising our youths three million jobs annually, only to deliver three million job losses annually; a government that is repeatedly living in denial of its commitment to restructuring. We must be united to take power back to where it belongs: the Nigerian people. “As members of the PDP, we must take pride in being able to hold a national convention and in so doing live up to the bill of being a truly democratic political party. Our major opponent has not been able to achieve this feat and I join millions of our party members to congratulate the Ahmed Makarfi-led national caretaker committee. “I understand that there are complaints and grievances from many of the co-contestants in the congress. I am aware that the PDP has a mechanism for addressing such complaints and it is important that such avenues of redress are made available for members to explore without let or hindrance Meantime, I call on ALL our leaders and members to rally the new executive for the sake of our party, Nigeria and the good of our people.