By Fatima Mohammed-Lawal Ilorin –  The wife of the President, Mrs Aisha Buhari on Wednesday, empowered over 1, 000 women in different skills acquisition in Kwara. The programme was organised by the Future Assured Women and Youth Empowerment, the Pet project of Mrs Aishat Buhari. Speaking at the graduation ceremony of beneficiaries in Ilorin, Mrs Aisha Buhari said the graduands were trained in various economic activities in line with the mandate of the initiative. She said the focus of the programme is to empower women and other less privileged in the society towards the realization of economic self reliance. According to her, the programme would complement government’s efforts in uplifting the standards of this segment of the population. In her address, wife of Kwara Governor, Mrs Omolewa Ahmed said the Future Assured initiative of Mrs Buhari was transforming the lives of the youth and women folks who formed greater percentage of the unemployed in the country. She described acquisition of skills as the main sustainable means to tackle the social burden of mass unemployment. Ahmed said her office would support the best 100 participants that excelled, to start their enterprises at the end of the training. According to her, an additional 225 was added to 1, 100 because of the zeal demonstrated by the participants. Mrs Ahmed also said participants were rated based on attendance, enthusiasm and class work and were graded by the instructors without any input or influence. She explained that the workshop was anchored by the African Community Bridge Foundation in collaboration with the Governor put the graduands through the trainings. The governor’s wife added that the training consist of how to market their products, create articulate business model, entrepreneurship and how best to access funds for development and sustenance of their various businesses. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), reports that some of the skills acquired by the women were; pastry making, tie and dye, make-up, bead and jewelry making. (NAN)