By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – All eyes are now on the All Progressives Congress (APC) following a successful conduct of national convention by the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The PDP has set the pace as a party populated by democrats. The People’s Democratic Party on Saturday, 9th December 2017 conducted its national Convention adjudged to be successful in all election standards; going by Independent Electoral Commission’s (INEC’s) requirements and the constitution of the party itself. This feat was achieved despite the leadership crisis that rocked the party shortly after it lost the 2015 general election after an uninterrupted sixteen years as a ruling party. The crisis which took the party from Appeal Court all the way to the Supreme Court was resolved on July 12, 2017 and the party was able to organize its convention with just about five months after. Political observers are of the view that PDP’s successful national convention has shown that it a party rooted in rule of law and believes in democratic principles unlike the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) which has shied away from holding its convention almost three years after winning election against the stipulation of its own constitution. WHAT APC CONSTITUTION SAYS ABOUT NATIONAL CONVENTION Sundiata Post recalls that article 25 (A)(i) of the  APC  constitution stipulates that the National Convention of the Party shall be held once in two (2) years at a date, venue and time to be recommended by the National Working Committee (NWC) and approved by the National Executive Committee (NEC) subject to the giving of the statutory notices to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and at least fourteen (14) days’ notice given to members eligible to attend. Convention is used to ratify policies and programmes of the Party; Elect or remove the national officers of the Party; Elect the Presidential Candidate of the Party; Amend the Constitution of the Party from time to time as the need may arise among other issues. WHY APC HAS NOT BEEN ABLE TO HOLD ITS CONVENTION Since the last convention of the party in October 2014, it has been difficult for the party to hold another convention. The party’s effort to hold the much vaunted convention in April and later in August proved abortive especially as a result of the ill-health of President and the actions of some political strategists. Political analysts believe that the party’s inability to hold its convention is partly not unconnected with the complex composition of the party – a party with a national leader (Senator Ahmed Bola Tinubu) who is not a member of the National Executive Committee.  How can the Exco hold a serious meeting without him in attendance? Recall that such similar meeting of the National Working Committee that held ended without serious resolution. Another factor being that the party is already having internal problems and it is assumed that the best way to protect the party from drifting into full blown crisis is to avoid holding a convention that would likely cause further bad blood amogst party members. Already, there are clear evidence that all is not well with the party after it formed cabinet that took as long as six months after inauguration in May 29, 2015.  It is alleged in some quarters that those who worked hard by committing financial resources and deploying their political structures respectively, were side-lined and not brought into mainstream in the scheme of things in the government. However, the CPC-arm is the one calling the shot in the party today while others are murmuring of having been used and dumped, and even ACN that made the victory possible is not visible in the affairs and running of the government. These are some of the reasons why the ruling party has, contrary to its own constitution, shied away from conducting National Convention. It was in recognition of these challenges facing the party that the governor of Kaduna State, Mallam Nasir El’Rufai, in his secret memo to Buhari in September 2016, emphasized that the All Progressives Congress, APC, “has not only failed to manage expectations of a populace that expected overnight ‘change’ but has failed to deliver even mundane matters of governance outside of its successes in fighting Boko Haram insurgency and corruption.” He further affirmed in the letter that, “Overall, the feeling even among APC’s supporters today is that the APC government is not doing well.” It is this “not doing well” pointed out in the secret letter and the reluctance on the part of the [party leaders to redress the anomalies characterizing the party, that led to the exit of the former Vice President Atiku Abubaka. Atiku Abubakar had accused his former party of not doing anything to address the issues raised by governor of Kaduna State which he described as genuine. Adding that the Party has gone further and have abandoned Nigerian youth and engaging in a draconian clampdown of democracy. Analysts believe that this statement by former Vice President Atiku Abubakar is a clear indication that the perceived peace that the APC enjoys at the moment can be likened to the grave yard peace, which the convention will expose if eventually it holds it national convention. HOW THE APC WAS FORMED AND EVENTS THAT LED TO ITS VICTORY IN 2015 ELECTION Recall that the All Progressives Congress was formed through the amalgamation of four parties- Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN), Congress for Progressive Change (CPC), a faction of All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA) and new PDP (nPDP). It was the combinations of; the political structures of the former governor of Lagos State, Senator Bola Tinubu and that of former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar; backed by the funding provided by the five PDP governors who pulled out of PDP (with more active role by the then Rivers governor, Rt.Hon Rotimi Amaechi) that that eventually gave the party victory in 2015. Sundiata Post recalls that when former President Atiku Abubakar was dumping the party last month (November), he re-echoes the genuineness of the issues raised by the governor of Kaduna State and reminded that nothing has done to address those concerns, rather, degenerated to a draconian clampdown of democracy as well as derailment from its set objectives and abandonment of the Nigerian youth. WHEN WILL APC HOLD ITS CONVENTION? Recall that sometime ago, the National Publicity Secretary, Malam Bolaji Abdullahi was quoted as saying, “I can tell you that the convention is not going to take place until the first quarter of next year. There will not be any implosion or explosion because we are not going to invite Boko Haram to the convention. “Let me emphasize that we have not decided on the date of the convention because we have to hold NEC meeting that will agree on a date and agenda for the convention.” Though Abdullahi swiftly said he was misquoted; describing such reports that the party has postponed its mini national convention to 2018 as false. But whether the APC’s national convention will hold in the first quarter of 2018 is still a mirage as no date or rumour of national convention is in the public domain. The ruling All Progressives Congress should lead by example by at least adhering to article 25 (A)(i) of its constitution to prove that it is a party that believes in rule of law. 