National Caretaker Committee of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, has asked President Muhammadu Buhari to make public his health status as a mark of respect for Nigerians. PDP said this in reaction to the delay in the President’s return to Nigeria from the United Kingdom. PDP said it was wrong for Buhari to send letter to the National Assembly, extending his leave, without telling Nigerians when he would resume. Spokesperson, Senator Ahmed Makarfi-led Caretaker Committee, Dayo Adeyeye, lamented that the President and his handlers were trivialising his state of health. He said, “The President should know he is not a private citizen. He should know that Nigerians are the ones paying his health bills and therefore, he should tell them the true state of his health. “He should not treat Nigerians with levity and he should also know what is obtainable in civilised countries. Nigeria is not a jungle. “Imagine the President talking about a leave extension but not saying when he would resume?” Adeyeye added that there was no way the President could claim to be awaiting the outcome of medical tests without definite dates. “Medical tests have dates of collection of results. It can’t be open-ended without dates,” he said. Reacting, APC National Publicity Secretary, Bolaji Abdullahi, said if the President had told Nigerians that he needed to stay back to do some other medical things, the citizens, should pray for him. “Does the PDP know more than what we have been told? What we know is what we have been told. We believe that the President has demonstrated an acute sense of responsibility. “We are all living witnesses to our recent history where a President travelled and did not even communicate to the National Assembly the appropriate document to make the then Vice-President act in his stead. “But this is a President that, on every occasion that he has to travel, he not only communicate to the National Assembly, but creates the enabling environment and the space for the Vice-President to act as President in his absence. “I don’t know why people will start going green in the eyes as if we are actually hoping that tragedy befalls this country. “The PDP should not behave in a way that will make Nigerians begin to think that it is actually spreading the rumour that the President is dead”, he declared.