The Garrison Commander of the Division 1 of the Nigerian Army, Kaduna and the state police commissioner, Agyole Abeh have relocated to the southern part of the state as a result of fresh attacks by unknown gunmen. It was gathered that Brigadier-General Ismaila Isa and CP Agyole Abeh left the state capital on Monday to coordinate a determined response to renewed attacks by armed bandits on communities in Kaura and Jema’a local government areas. A statement issued by the governor’s spokesman, Mr Samuel Aruwan remarked that the situation has been brought under control by this afternoon, but security operations continue. According to the statement, the state governor, Mallam Nasir el-rufai extended his condolences to the families of the victims of the renewed attacks which began last night, 19th February 2017. ‘The governor assured them that the government is fully committed to securing the area, with the active support of the army and the police. ‘The governor said that despite these difficulties and the pain of the attacks, this is not the time to give the bandits the pleasure of seeing victims turn on each other. “I have been in touch with the security agencies and I have been studiously following the situation in Jema’a and Kaura Local Government Areas over the unfortunate attacks. I want to, first of all, extend my heartfelt condolences to the families and relations that lost their loved ones and properties in these unfortunate attacks. My prayers and support equally goes to citizens that sustained injuries and are traumatised by what they witnessed. “This is clearly a wicked, evil and devilish act being perpetrated by enemies of peace and humanity. “I also wish to commend our gallant soldiers and police personnel, who are defending our communities. The Kaduna State Government will continue to work assiduously with security agencies towards the protection of life and property.” It would be recalled, unknown gunmen in a coordinated attack invaded Bakin Kogi, Kaninkon Village in Jemaa Local Government Area in the State on Sunday 19th February, 2017 at about 5:30pm. However, they were repulsed by Operation Yaki Surveillance Patrol Teams and Operation Harmony Patrol Teams. It was gathered that further attacks were recorded Monday in Kaura local government. Fatalities were recorded and some houses were burnt in the attacks. (The Nation)