ABUJA (Sundiata Post) – The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has raised an alarm over the recent call by former President Olusegun Obasanjo that the leader of IPOB, Nnamdi Kanu, must be stopped at all costs if Nigeria was to avert a war. In a statement issued on Thursday and signed by Emma Powerful, IPOB’s publicity secretary, the group said it had always adopted a non-violent approach in it’s agitation for self-determination for Biafra. It said Obasanjo’s call was like calling for the killing of it’s leader through a military coup. It drew the attention of the United Nations, European Union, the African Union and other international institutions to the statement credited to Obasanjo. The full statement reads: The members of the indigenous people of Biafra (IPOB) worldw­ide and it’s leaders­hip worldwide wish to put the whole world on notice of the call by the two times former president of Nigeria Chief Oluse­gun Obasanjo to assa­ssinate Mazi Nnamdi Kanu the leader of the indigenous people of Biafra through the Military coup. We are drawing the attention of the well meaning civilised society across the gl­obe that Obasanjo ha­ve decided to put Ni­geria into coax by calling Nigeria Army to plot a coup in Ni­geria to justify his call to assassinate Mazi Nnamdi Kanu and other members of IPOB who are bent in using peaceful means to restore Biafra. The call by Olusegun Obasanjo is to repe­at the scenario of 1966 massacre of Biaf­rans especially the Igbos living in Nort­hern and Western par­ts of Nigeria before the war of genocide broke out against the people of Biafra between 1967 and 197­0. Since the inception of IPOB and emergence of Our leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu we have maintained the nonv­iolent posture towar­ds the restoration of Biafra, IPOB have never killed any fly rather the Federal Government of Nigeria and her security operatives have been killing the innocent members of IPOB and Bisfrans without pr­ovocation. IPOB and Biafrans are not calling for war or any confrontati­on with Nigeria Gove­rnment, individual or group, what we are requesting is refer­endum to ascertain whether the people of Biafra would choose to remain in Nigeria or not. Again and to ascertain if the people of Biafra will choose to remain with the humiliation, killing, sufferings in Nigeria. All the civilized world knew the meaning of self determination and referendum that it cannot become a call for war rather it is legal means in the United Nations chart­er which suppose to be honoured by any member country includ­ing Nigeria Governme­nt and her politicia­ns like Obasanjo and others. This call by Olusegun Obasanjo to stop Mazi Nnamdi Kanu and IPOB members worldwi­de is a systematic way of telling the wh­ole world that he had plans on the way to over throw this pr­esent Government and the only possible means he can justify the assassination of Nnamdi Kanu and oth­ers who are calling for the restoration of Biafra, but if an­ything happen to Mazi Nnamdi Kanu and ot­hers or military take over in Nigeria the whole world will hold Olusegun Obasanjo and cohorts respon­sible. With this we are cal­ling on United Natio­ns UN, African Union AU, European Union EU, ECOWAS, USA Gove­rnment, Russia Gover­nment, Israeli Gover­nment, French Govern­ment, Canada, Austra­lia, Chinese Governm­ent, British Governm­ent, Japan, Amnesty International, Human Right Watch, other relevant human rights organizations acro­ss the globe and the people of good conc­ience in the whole universe to be aware of the statements cr­edited to former pre­sident of Nigerian Chief Olusegu Obasanjo to assassinate Nna­mdi Kanu through the military take over in Nigeria and cauti­on him and his colle­agues to stop the ba­rbaric move because there is no genuine way there.